
There are different species, such as amphibians, reptiles, mammals, insects, and birds; the population is widespread. Animals are not just fellow inhabitants but an essential part of our ecosystem. However, many of these animals face the threat of extinction due to the actions of humankind. Environmentalists and international organizations such as PETA and WWF have raised the conservation of many species.

Long Essay regarding Animals 500 Words in English
Short Essay On Animals 200 Words in English for kids
10 Lines on Animals Essay in English
What are some of the species of the animal kingdom?
How do animals help ecology?
Mention some organizations for wildlife conservation.
When is Wildlife Day commemorated?
Long and Short Essays on Animals for Students and Kids in English
There is one long essay on animals of 500 words and one short essay of 200 words on animals.


Animals Essay

Long Essay regarding Animals 500 Words in English
Long essay on Animals is for students of Classes 8,9 and 10 and competitive exam aspirants.

The Earth is home to many creatures. Animals have been the inhabitants of this planet, along with humans. Historically, animals were used for transportation, protection, as well as for hunting. Animals have been companions to man since time immemorial.


Animals are the kingdom while classifying their species. There are a variety of species present under this, with their presence spanning across the world. Amphibians primarily require a moist environment as they breathe and absorb through thin skins. Some amphibians include frogs, salamanders, toads, and caecilians. Mammals are vertebrates and warm-blooded. Females have mammary glands to feed their young ones and have a thick coat of fur. Mammals include carnivores, bears, rodents, etc. Reptiles are vertebrates, but lay eggs. Some of them have scales. Common reptiles are lizards, turtles, and snakes.

Insects have an exoskeleton. They have three pairs of legs, a head, thorax, and abdomen. Beetles, ants, and bees are some insects. Birds have wings, beaks, and feathers such as eagles, pigeons, crows, and sparrows. There are many species of animals that are domesticated as well, such as dogs, cats, rabbits, horses, etc.

Animals are vital to the ecosystem. Animals have different purposes when it comes to the environment. Even microorganisms help to clean our planet. Many animals aide plants to converting free nitrogen present in the air and nourishing the roots and a crucial role in sustaining ecological balance. Predatory animals keep the population in the animal population controlled. Animals that feed on plants help to control plant growth. They also provide us with the food required for our survival. Poultry, dairy, and meat serve as essentials to many cultures and their diets. Animals are one of the oldest companions of humans.
